That's making me a little bit upset.
Neville,
fantastic. Incredible man.
It's the owners of that business. It's
really simple joke.
I don't think anyone can believe it.
One of the things that people [music]
don't know about you is just the scale
of your business portfolio. It's quite
honestly mental.
The only thing you can ever do in life
is work as hard as you possibly can and
never give in.
What is the cost?
I basically collapsed to the floor and
had a fit. I went to hospital. checks
[music] and then found that I needed to
slow down a little bit and I'd stopped
doing the things that kept me well and I
just run myself into the ground. So I
knew that that point then I needed to
see somebody.
Manchester United are failing.
I do feel sorry for the current players
and that won't go down well with a lot
of Manchester United fans. These players
go out onto the pitch now. They feel
alone. But that's where I am a little
bit critical of Cristiano. You're the
star. Now's not the time to be throwing
your arms around. Now's the [music] time
to make sure you lead those people.
Resilience and robustness and hard work
can be taught and learned. I [music]
don't think it's something you're born
with. From the minute I joined at 11 to
the minute I left at 36, Manchester
[music] United got everything out of me.
Everything.
Of all the people I always talk about
having the influence on my [music] life.
I never mention my mom and her mom and
dad. They're far better people than
[music] I am. That's making me a little
bit upset.
So without further ado, I'm Steven
Bartlett and this is the diary of a CEO.
I hope nobody's listening, but if you
are, then please keep this to yourself.
[music]
We are a normal working-class family.
There are no famous sporting ancestors
in our in our family. Yet somehow we won
a combined 218 caps for our country at
football and netball between us. Tracy
Neville MBU, your sister, went twice to
the Commonwealth Games and World
Championships, representing England 74
times and coached the national team.
How and why is that possible that three
siblings in a family reach sporting
greatness when there isn't a long
lineage of you know the granddad was at
Manchester United, this person was at
this club and they opened doors for me?
I don't know really. I I'll start at the
end because I was having a conversation
yesterday about um it was actually how
long should you take off after you've
had a baby as a couple whether it be the
the man or the woman and I was thinking
about my sister and she took like two or
three weeks off and then she was back at
it and also my father passed away seven
years ago and on the morning of his
funeral I went and presented
our project St. Michaels at a council
meeting and then went and got ready at
home and went to his funeral straight
after it. And someone said to me, "It's
not normal that." And and my sister, my
dad passed away in Australia whilst he
was whilst he was watching my sister
play for the Comwalth Games. And me and
my brother flew straight over there. My
sister was still coaching the team. She
never broke stride. and he was on a
ventilator keeping him alive even though
he'd actually to be fair passed away.
And they were just waiting for us to get
over the day after we got there. My
sister said, "I've got a game tomorrow.
We can't pronounce that he's actually
dead until after I finish the game and I
come back to the hospital." And when I
think of that, that's the end, I
suppose, in terms of that sort of that
feeling of just that drive, that
commitment to what we do.
People say it's not normal. Someone said
to me say it's not normal that that we
would continue our lives irrespective of
and that probably came from my dad and
from my mom but I think of it as in
different layers for me personally. I
don't know what it was like for my
sister or my brother but for me
personally I think of it as being the
first layer was my mom and dad their
love for sport that commitment to get
there early to do things. My dad used to
say, "Get up early. Get there early. Get
your job done." And then when I got to
United, I'm hit by Noby Styles, Brian
Kid, you know, Manchester United
European Cup winners in 1968. And then
Eric Harrison, a northern tough
Yorkshireman who every single day
drilled us about what it was to be a
Manchester United player. And then
you're exposed to Sir Alex Ferguson and
Roy Keane and Peter Schmeichel and Mark
Hughes. So these different layers of,
you know, monstrous mentalities of
people who are just massive leaders,
we've been exposed to them. I was
exposed to them. And that's why I always
say that resilience and robustness and
hard work can be taught and learned. I
don't think it's something you're born
with. And I think when you say like how
did we achieve that? I just think we're
very fortunate with our parents and the
exposure that we had to brilliant
leaders throughout our career and
examples and the standard bearers that
were next to us.
Learning through words, those words that
your dad would say to you about getting
up and getting at it every morning is a
great way to learn. But actions, I
think, in hindsight seem to be the best
way to to really learn those lessons
vicariously from observing our parents
and how they're behaving in their lives.
I I I'll never forget the day that I saw
my mom. My mom stopped coming home and
then I asked my dad where she was and
she said, "Oh, she sleeps in the back of
the shop now, this corner shop she was
running." and then going there and
seeing this bag of rice that she was
sleeping on that had all these rat holes
in it from where the mice and rats had
been eating it. That visual of that she
was working that hard even though she
didn't have to to support our family
that she was sleeping in the back room
every night and not coming home
was was a lesson that I learned without
her saying a word.
Yeah.
What are the lessons that you learned
from your cuz you cited your dad there
as being pretty in in um a pretty
go-getter person. How was he functioning
and professionally that taught you these
lessons?
He was a lorry driver and he basically
worked for Constellation Luggage which
was just luggage, you know, suitcases
and he had to do three drops a week at
Daventry which is south of Birmingham
and he just had to get them there
basically by the end of Monday,
Wednesday and Friday.
But we had a we lived in a two up two
down terrace house and every time my dad
got up you can hear your dad get up when
you're young. You just you just hear it
because it's obviously that you know the
lights come on on you hear the sort of
noise the floorboards are creaking
and we always get up early as a family
anyway but at 4 5:00 you'd hear my dad
we lived in the back we were in the back
bedroom and his his lorry his wagon was
parked at the back when if he was going
to do a drop the next day and he'd leave
at 4 5:00 in the morning on the Monday,
Wednesday and Friday. He'd take the
suitcases, he'd wait for the depot to
open at sort of seven, eight o'clock,
drop them off, and he'd be back and have
his job done by 11 o'clock, and then
he'd start to go and do his what would
be his commercial work, the fundraising
for testimonials, the thing that he
loved for, say, for instance, Lanasher
County Club players. That was his
passion. That's how he got into Berry
Football Club as a commercial director
and into he had he had a sales
mentality, my dad, but in the he get his
his main job done by 11:00 every single
morning. He'd be Daventry and back in a
lorry. And then after school he'd take
us to football and he'd take us to
cricket. So the amount he fit into a day
was unbelievable. You know, he'd almost
do two jobs. He'd do his job which was
his main job which was earning him his
money which was a lorry driver. He'd
then come and do the job which would be
potentially could he do some sort of
like side job selling for Lanashshire
County Cricket Club or Green Mountain
Cricket Club. He did he organized
dinners and events and things like that.
and then his family would come after
school where he he'd put them into sport
and we'd go to United in the evening or
we'd go we were at United from 11 11
Monday and Thursday night. So this
constant drive of trying to fit as much
as you possibly can in the day and
that's where I sort of the attack of the
day was from my dad. Get up, get there
early. Let's make sure we're there. Even
at United, we get there early on
Saturday. There would never been any
risk with time of being late. I feel
sometimes that that is a good thing.
It's it's put that into us. But
sometimes to live by that now,
particularly at the age I'm at,
sometimes you sort of think it's hard to
keep Yeah. It's hard to keep on doing
it. And you wonder now, particularly
what we know now, whether it's the right
thing. My dad had heart problems at a
very early age at the age of 42. You
know, he's a lorry driver. You know, he
liked to go for a beer. He liked a night
out. He did too much. He got stressed.
All the things that I do. [laughter]
So, he thinks there's a lot I can see in
my dad of me. Um, but I don't think I
can change it really. [clears throat]
What is the cost? because for everyone's
I sat here with Tim Grover who actually
coaches a lot of the young United
players now co coach Michael Jordan and
um Kobe Bryant for a span of 15 odd
years he was their their sole coach and
he said for everyone's greatness the
thing that causes their greatness in
your case you know that drive and that
ruthlessness and that dedication caused
you to become a Manchester United legend
and all these other things but what is
the cost on the other side that people
don't don't see from he he referred to
it as we have our light side and we have
our dark side the dark side is a
consequence an unavoidable consequence
of the light side.
Yeah.
What was that dark side for you and your
dad?
Um health, I think. And I've seen that
in the last couple of years myself. I
think um
physical health.
No,
I've had I
I've said this to be fair on something
that I've done myself in the last week
on the overlap. Um I actually to be fair
um real Raheem Sterling scored the goal
in the uh European Championships against
Germany a year and a half ago and I
basically collapsed the floor and had a
fit and after that I went to
hospitalized checks and then found that
you know I need to slow down a little
bit basically and it's sim it's similar
things to what my dad was told in his
40s that you know ultimately I do too
I
think too much. I need to relax more.
You know, to be fair, my wife says it
quite often.
You're here, but you're not present.
Christ, I've [laughter]
do you get that?
Oh my god.
So, and there was interest. I was doing
an interview the other day and u it was
with Jeff Shrie. Jeff's known me 15 20
years. And he said, "The problem is when
I'm asking you a question,
you've got my question inside the first
two seconds." Let's say it's a 10-second
question. you've got my question inside
the first two seconds. The next eight
seconds you're thinking about what
you're doing after I can see it in your
eyes already and he's right. So, so even
during this interview I'm speaking and
sometimes I lose my way in an interview
and I actually forget what the question
was and quite often I'll say what was
the question you if I'm on stage doing
like a Q&A what did you actually ask me
because I've actually drifted off whilst
I'm answering the question to something
that I need to do later and it's I'm
never present. So the the consequence is
that maybe I remember Sir Alex saying to
me missed his children growing up. I am
missing my children growing up. That's a
consequence of my life. I've been in
London for four days, you know, but what
can I do? I've got I come down to
Brenford, Manchester United. I then stay
down Sunday because I don't I can't get
a train back. The trains there's a train
strike and then I'm down doing Monday
Night Football and I'll go back today.
Last week I was down for another four
days. But it's what I do. I love what I
do. I wouldn't change it. But this
afternoon I'll get back to Manchester.
I've got meetings till six and then
tomorrow I'm full all day. Thursday I'm
in Glasgow doing a dinner with Sir Alex
Ferguson. So it is a constant sort of
every single day that I feel like I'm
filling days with things that I love and
want to do. But then you say to
yourself, you do have those odd moments
more now. Why am I doing all this? Why
are you doing this now? You love doing
it. Maybe you know it's what you enjoy,
but you sometimes have those moments,
don't you? I have more of those moments.
I think why am I doing those? Why have I
got two hotels? Why have I got a
football club? Why have I got a
university? Why have I built an overlap
channel? I'm already on Sky. Why am I
doing these things? But it's it's that
idea of I suppose cramming as much into
your life as possible, thinking you've
just only got this sort of short period
of time. And Brian Kid used to say to
us, get your pace early, you can't make
it up at the end. And we used to sprint
and sprint in our runs and sprint and
that mean if you collapsed at the end
and you didn't quite finish it or
whatever, it's better than managing
yourself and thinking I'll save a little
bit. We I have to say the players I
played with at Manchester United, we
never saved anything. It was all left
out there on the pitch. And I think
that's how our lives are since as well.
We just leave everything out there on
the pitch. There's nothing saved. So, we
just end up I suppose saturating every
single second of every single day.
I used to think that I was driven. I
used to think that, you know, and that
sounds like a very good framing. I'm
driven. I'm motivated. I thought that's
what was because you said, right, why am
I doing this? After I do this podcast,
there's maybe, you know, 10 other
companies that I'm running. I have zero
time in the day and then I try and cram
in my girlfriend and my family and do a
very bad job of that. I used to think
it's because I'm driven and I'm just
whatever. And then I asked myself a
question which I when I met Eddie
Hannah, I I saw the same thing. I mean,
his book is called Relentless. Yeah.
Are we really driven or are we being
voluntarily driven as in we're making
the choice to drive towards something or
are we being involuntarily dragged by
some kind of insecurity or some kind of
discomfort with the prospect of not
being busy because for me I'm convinced
these days that I'm probably being
dragged by an insecurity
maybe
that I developed at a very young age.
Yeah, maybe. I'm not sure. I don't I
don't know. I don't I don't Could you
stop? I don't feel uh not sure because
this idea that you know if you stop
it'll kill you and all that sort of
stuff. Slow down.
I do feel like I need to slow down. I
read a book I think I can't remember
what it was a few a few years ago where
it talked about you can never really
retire
if you love work and you are relentless
but what you can have is mini
retirements during the year. And that's
what I've tried to do. I don't do it
very well. So for instance this weekend
I'm going to Spain Friday till Monday
morning. I call that's like a mini
retirement.
So
that's a weekend.
It's a weekend. It's a mini retirement.
It's where I basically can say for three
days I'm there and I'm I'm basically
taking, you know, I don't think about
work. Now I will, but and sometimes some
of my best my best ideas come when I'm
on these types of trips. But then in six
weeks I'll have another mini retirement
for five days or four days rather than
thinking you're going to stop for six
months and sort of have a sbatical.
That's not probably going to happen with
people like you or I because we just
basically don't work that way. So to
have lots of mini retirements during the
year is what I've tried to do in the
last few years. I'm not sure I'm doing
it very successfully. I'm not sure
what's wrong with us if that's what
you're asking. Is there something wrong
with us? I don't feel insecure or
vulnerable. I don't feel insecure or
vulnerable at all. I feel
I feel I feel so confident and I feel
not confident. I feel like I've got
coping mechanisms to be able to deal
with things. So there isn't any
criticism. There's very very little
criticism that I receive now that even
touches the sides of me and I get
criticized heavily on social media
through my football punditry my opinions
whatever it may be because what I went
through at United losing that confidence
at the age of 24 post treble going
through that difficult patch where I
didn't want the ball seeing the
psychiatrist on my own only the doctor
knew not talking about it till I was 35
but what that psychiatrist gave me was
coping mechanisms and perspective and I
just asked you know if I go through a
difficult moment now I ask myself the
question will I come out of it the other
side did I expect every day to be a good
day no I don't expect every day to be a
good day so when the bad day comes and
it's a really bad experience or you have
a make a bad business decision did you
think you'd make every decision would be
a good decision in business no it
wouldn't be a good you're not going to
make the right decision every single day
you're going to have bad decisions bad
choices bad days so when they come now I
can put them into perspective and move
on really comfortably so I feel like I'm
I don't feel vulnerable or insecure for
and I'm not quite sure sometimes, you
know, people say, "I've got a strategy.
I've got a plan." I'm not quite sure any
of us have really because the reality of
it is we don't know what door's going to
open next. You don't know six years ago,
5 years ago that Dragon's Den is going
to come and knock on your door. You
don't know that. You haven't got a clue.
Or 10 years ago, certainly you don't
know that's going to happen in your
life. But when the knock on the door
comes, you think, I fancy walking
through that door. And probably the same
with me when things have happened in my
life where I thought I didn't expect
that to come. Yeah, I'll take that. So,
we are probably being dragged. It's a
little bit like jumping off. You go
skiing. You're off the sort of go off
the sort of black slope.
There's no way out of it. You're going
down and you can't stop. And it's a
little bit like, you know, I feel like
to be fair, my life's a little bit like
a black skull a black slope in skiing.
You know, I've gone over the edge. I've
started. What can I do now? Slow down.
say to my businesses, say to the teams
that I work with, "Sorry, I don't fancy
this anymore." Well, thanks for that,
but you we're here still. What? What?
What's I've got no choice.
I've got no choice.
You've got no choice. [laughter]
We're in.
Do you know why?
Um I read this book called The Body
Holds the Score and I was actually
speaking to one of my best friends
yesterday who was a extreme workaholic
and then he started having panic
attacks. He ends up in hospital and he
said to me, he said, "I felt fine, but
the body goes gives out first." The body
will, you know, when the mind is telling
you, no, you can cope with this, you're
doing fine, the body will show you in a
pretty um
drastic fashion that you're not okay,
and that you need to listen to to to
yourself. Ever since you you collapsed
on that day, have you [clears throat]
made changes? Honestly,
cuz I'm going to ask I'm ask I'm going
to ask Emma. [laughter]
I did. I did. I have, I think.
But then it's the actual sustain it's
sustaining the changes and not dipping
back into your old habits that's the
problem that so what do I do? I train
four or five times a week. I wasn't
always training pre that. Um I try I've
got a sleep ring and it focuses me more
on the time I need to sleep at night and
but then I don't always wear it now. You
know it's a couple of years later it's
in my bag. It's in. I didn't wear it
last night and I'm annoyed with myself
because I didn't wear it last night
because I forgot to put it on when I got
back. So habits really that sort of do
you drift back into your old habits. Um
I try not to pick my phone up when I
first wake up, but I I'm failing
miserably at that.
I'm failing miserably. But I have to
take an email off my phone. I've taken
WhatsApp off my phone
because they're things that I think were
emails. If I think if you wake up to an
email at 4 in the morning, that's an
email that's not a great email. Let's
say it's something that you think I've
got to deal with that. You aren't
getting back to sleep. So, I've taken an
email off my phone. It's only on my
iPad. It helps. WhatsApp. I mean,
WhatsApp announced last week that they
were going to sort of this idea that you
you couldn't um you couldn't be joined
in groups and people didn't know when
you were online. I just felt like it was
an intrusion. WhatsApp. I felt like
people were attacking me. a constant
attack of added to groups and they see
that I'm online and things like that and
I oh no get off get away from me so I
just do iMessage now um and I say to
people ring me so there have been
changes that I've made that are are
helpful because I do feel email is
[sighs]
I love speaking to people so I lived in
a dressing room where the camaraderie we
didn't email each other at Manchester
United so Alex Ferguson didn't email
We had a brilliant team spirit in the
club. We were there every single day. We
spoke to each other. We socialized with
each other. We'd help each other. We
knew each other. And that's how you
build a team spirit. And I felt
sometimes email can be I know it needs
to happen in businesses. I know that you
need to see attachments. I know you need
to communicate with each other. I do
believe that they can be quite damaging
to culture sometimes, particularly if
the wrong tone on the email. I think you
can be mis misunderstood on email. I
think it can come across harsh. I think
they can put pressure on people and I
realized that the first five years out
of football, I was emailing people 5,
six o'clock in the morning, but you
imagine, you know, you emailing people
at 5, six o'clock in the morning. The
impact that that's going to have on them
when they wake up. I've got to deal with
that. I' got to email them back. It's
like that's not fair. It's not right.
So, I have made quite a few changes, but
probably not enough.
Yeah, I I completely agree. I don't I'll
be honest people. I look at my emails
once a week.
Wow. So my my assistant looks at my
inbox and then if there's she puts them
on my list and then I go to my list when
I'm ready and also with all my WhatsApps
and all that stuff all notifications off
and it's just for me trying to take back
control of my time so I choose when I go
to it. It doesn't notify me that that it
needs me now and I used to have email
dread.
Yeah.
You know early mornings especially
you're running a big company you've got
what 600 employees or more.
Yeah.
There's always going to be something
wrong.
There is. Yeah.
And it doesn't care what time or
occasion it's going to interrupt you.
There's always going to be and I don't
want that anxiety in my life.
But also, if there is a problem and
something's gone wrong, then just ring.
They can call you.
Yeah. Ring me. Just ring me. Yeah.
Anyone can ring me and just say, "Look,
I've got a problem." And then we we drop
everything, don't we?
I always feel like it's the biggest
responsibility I have is to the people
that I work with. And if they ring me
and they're they're in trouble, they've
got a problem. We have to deal with
that. That's an absolute immediate. you
always going back to your early years in
football and as you came through the
ranks you you always and I've seen this
in multiple interviews kind of are a
little bit self-disparaging about your
own ability. Yeah. [laughter]
I just played with brilliant players,
didn't I? I mean, if you think about it,
just go through the players who I played
with. Yap Stam, you know, Dennis Irwin,
Peter Schmeichel, Roy Ke to
David Beckham, Cristiano Ronaldo, Dwight
York, Eric Can. Every single one of them
had more talent and ability than I did,
you know. It just they just did. It was
just obvious around me. When I got to
United, do you about insecurity? The
only time that I ever felt insecure was
when I got to United at I got to United
at 11:00 and I joined at 11 and the
center of excellence group and we got
retained every single year. But at 14 is
where it gets really serious and they
start they sign the SC the school boys
and the out of town lads come in. So all
of a sudden you're exposed to them to
Beckham to Skulls joined at 14 all these
brilliant players and you think how am I
going to survive here? I could just I'm
aware I know my own abilities. Um, and
I had to I had to just do things
differently. I was a midfield player,
then I was a center back, then ended up
at right back. You know, there is an
element of truth in what Carrier said.
No one wants to grow up to be a Gary
Neville, meaning no one wants to grow up
to be a fullback. Everyone when they're
a kid scores goals or sets up goals and
then you find out that you're not good
enough to do that and you get pushed
back the team. That's what happened with
me. I was one position away. I that was
my last hope, right back. You know what
I mean? if I was out the team if I
couldn't play [laughter] right back. I'
I'd gone from center midfield as 11 12
year old at United, then center back
from 14 to 18 and then told I wouldn't I
wasn't good enough by my reserve team
coach to be a center back at United
because Steve Bruce and Gary Palist were
there and then I go to to right back.
So, you are aware that you're being
pushed out of your positions by better
players and that that's your only route
to success is hard work and playing at
right back and trying to adapt to that.
and then
it was good enough for me in the end.
But, you know, it's not disparaging. I I
knew the game. I I could organize. I
knew the game well. I read the game
well. And um on the pitch, I would never
ever I would never give in. So, that
around me, this idea of being able to
organize the team, I could see the game
in front of me. So I had an impact I
believe had an impact on the other
players that I played with beyond my
talent through my understanding of the
game and making sure that I never
stopped going and we never stop going.
We keep going. We just keep pushing
forward. So if we're fighting for a
goal, you know, I always think what's
the I never go into this little level of
grand. I probably never said this
before. When people say to me, it's the
greatest moment in my life. I say it's
the final in 99 in New Camp when we won
the treble.
But that I I made a run from right back.
I got the corner for the first goal
because I went over I ras sprinted over
to the left wing and took the long throw
to put it into the box. It came back out
to me and we got the corner. It's not an
assist by any stretch of the
imagination. Typifies my career of seven
goals and very few assists. I am no
Trent Alexander Arnold or nor even a
Dennis Irwin. But that that that you
have to find a way to win. You have to
just do everything you possibly can. you
cannot leave anything on the pitch. You
just sprint everywhere. You just do
everything. And that to me typified what
probably I was that I could see
something in that, you know, in terms of
how to impact a game, whether it be
through impacting someone else by
getting them going and giving them the
ball and get and keeping them at it. Um,
and that's why I think he kept me there
till I was 36 because it wasn't through
ability at the end. He kept me there
till I was 36 just through my influence
and my impact I had in the dressing
room. I'm I'm pretty certain of that
because it wasn't through anything that
I was doing on the pitch. So, I'm always
humble around my own ability because of
the talent I had around me. And that's
why I get caught on Twitter quite often.
People will say to me, "If it hadn't
been if you hadn't been at Manchester
United, you'd been a job in right back
somewhere like Fulham or Bournemouth or
maybe."
I mean, I've never heard anyone in a
higher managerial position disagree with
the phrase that hard work beats talent
when talent doesn't work hard.
Yeah. I mean, I that's one thing I could
never ever I could never ever be accused
of anything other than from the minute I
joined at 11 to the minute I left at 36,
Manchester United got everything out of
me. Everything. And to be fair, the club
gave me everything. So, we we didn't owe
each other anything. Um, and that's
something I'm proud of. Longevity is
actually probably one of one of the
things that consistency and longevity.
Being able to consistently work hard
every single day at a good level of
performance and turn up every single day
and be there is underrated actually. And
that that's the thing that to me for
surviving at 25 years under Sir Alex
Ferguson in that environment of
excellence and demands that he placed on
people was you know it was a great
achievement but I did that with a lot
less talent than the other players in
the club.
When was the first time you realized
that Sir Alex Ferguson was you re you
felt his influence you felt his mindset.
Do you know something? In the early
days, it was the old school like head
teacher. Not he's not a head teacher by
any stretch of the imagination, but you
know that little bit of fear that you
maybe have of your father as well. If
your father sort of gets a bit angry
with you, you know that little bit of
that dominating male
of the 70s, 80s, 90s, probably going
back beyond that was was apparent in Sir
Alex Ferguson that you know, you knew
when he walked into the room, the room
went quiet. There was that presence,
that aura hit the boss's ear. And so you
felt it straight away.
When people say to me sort of how did
you keep coming back every single year
and continue to keep winning? What was
the secret of that? It was by his
actions and what what he did. I I always
remember when I was third when did we
lose the Champions League final? 2009.
So I'd have been 34. Right near the end
of my career.
Uh I was doing my um we're playing the
Champions League final on the Wednesday.
We lost. We got back on the Friday
from Rome or Thursday or Friday. On the
Saturday, I had to go and pick up my
boots at Carrington the training ground.
So, it was a Sunday morning. I had to go
pick up my boots at Carrington the
training ground to go to St. George's
Park because I was doing my uh alicens
coaching badge and it was my final
assessment. And I went in at 7:00 in the
morning. and I'd organized to meet with
the caretaker who was basically there on
site all the time to let me in and I
parked on the back and the his office
lights on and he's there in his chair.
I thought, "Oh no, I don't want to see
him. We just lost the European Cup final
four four days ago." So I drove back
around the front and went and got my
boots and moved out. But he was there at
Sunday morning half 600 7:00 the only
person in the building with his light on
four days after we'd won the European
Cup final. and he would been in his
mid-60s and I thought no one could live
with that there that's the reason he's
winning that's the reason he's there
because there's no other manager no
other leader that I know four days after
that defeat in his off time in the
summer is in his office on a Sunday
morning at half past six and he didn't
know he didn't know I was coming in
obviously and he didn't see me either I
just saw you could just see him in the
distance it was I couldn't believe it
and it just all those sort of examples
of that work ethic they hit you every
single day and he knew how to tap into
here. He knew how to get you no matter
who you were in the dressing room. He
always used to get me. I always say this
by mentioning my used he used to mention
my grandparents. What about your
grandparents getting up every single day
putting their tie on the work that they
put in? How they never complained about
anything. You know what they must have
lived through obviously in the Second
World War. And he would say things like
that in his team talks and it would
always tap into me because I used to sit
with my mom's dad and look at his medals
that he had he got during the Second
World War. He'd had three or four
wounds. He had shrapnel wounds in his
shoulders that he could still show me
and bits of metal still in his body. And
he would talk to me about the medals and
where he got them from and how he'd been
in Holland and how he sort of had to
come back and then he went back over,
how he married my nan on on one of his
returns back. So that used to get me
every single time. times when I used to
play for United when you think about
what motivates you, what gets you going
and you used to mention say for instance
grandparents and there's that difficult
moment on a pitch where you think we're
struggling here a little bit and now I
think of my youngest daughter when I'm
training what keeps me going to the end
of that training session. I think of
silly things. If I don't keep going
here, someone's going to get my youngest
daughter and I there's nothing going to
get her. So, I've got to keep going. And
there it was my it was my it was my
granddad and mom's dad. And I used to
think he wouldn't he wouldn't stop
going. He came back having been wounded
twice and shrapnel wounds twice and went
back out to fight again. And he had
those medals and he would speak to me
about it and I used to think how can I
stop? But he would he would find that in
me. Sir Alex would push he would push
those buttons and press those buttons.
For someone else, it would become
something completely different. I'm sure
it might be talking about the father. It
might be talking about him going on
strike in the govern shipyards. It might
be talking about another experience that
he's had. But he would tap into
everybody in the dressing room in some
way that would mean they'd find
something to mean they would never give
in. And that's what, you know, his film
is called Never Give In. He never give
in. But also the influence he had on
others never to give in through finding
something in them was was incredible.
Rio talked to me a lot about culture and
the culture that Sar Alex Ferguson said
Everra said the same thing having left
football now and working in the world of
business. You must must be looking back
on the culture he created. Yeah. And in
some ways drawing a lot from that in
your own businesses, right? What what
what have you learned about the
importance of culture? Because there was
this comment Ria ma made to me on the
podcast that I've never forgotten which
is about Sir Alex Ferguson's like lack
of presence at the training ground. Ria
said he only came into the training
ground training room dressing ground a
couple of times because he didn't need
to. The culture was in there.
Yeah.
And then Ria talked about how then when
Ria went and moved on to another club in
that same dressing room players are
talking about how much money they're
making and all of these other things
which would never have happened at
United.
No.
How how does how does one create that
culture?
I suppose
being grounded. He was grounded and he
believed in the sort of the work the
work ethic was everything to him. Being
proud. Being proud to work hard. Being
proud of the people around you who work
hard. Uh being proud of your teammates.
I used to say, "Look around the change
room. Look around. I'm proud of every
single one of you. But look at each
other. Look at what you each do for each
other on the pitch and how you can't
achieve what you're going to achieve
without each other." So, he made us
respect each other. Not everybody got on
in our changing room, but most of us
did. Um, but he tapped into those things
all the time. It it was it was it was
non-stop and being grounded
um looking after people. Little things
like Wendy used to get the charity balls
signed. Um and Roy Keane was like this
as well. So Wendy every Thursday would
have 30 to 40 charity balls that we
would sign and then they would go to the
children's charities or the different
charities in Greater Manchester or in
the country. And sometimes you're in a
rush, aren't you? You're a football
player. You're young. Ah Wendy, I'll
sign him after. I'm in a mad rush. I've
got to go and do my stretching. I've got
to have my massage. I've got to have
treatment. Whatever it might be that you
say on the way in. Some poor excuse that
you'd give or maybe he just generally
did. And there was one day where he
basically I think Roy had walked past
Wendy. He was a little bit upset and
only five players out the 23 in the
squad had signed the balls and Roy went
upstairs and said to Sir Alex, "It's an
absolute disgrace." This has happened a
couple of weeks now. He killed us. He
absolutely killed us. The lack of
respect to to walk past Wendy who was
there to get the charity ball signed and
not sign them for her for him was a a
dereliction of duty. It was a lack of
respect. It's not what you do. We're
equal in this football club. We treat
each other equally. We look after one
another. We make sure that we're sort of
compassionate. And the idea of not doing
things like that, little things like
that. Um I think just little things like
that stand out in my mind. So now
sometimes I walk into the businesses and
you know what we're like. We sometimes
walk in on our phone and we don't say
hello to people because we're that
immersed in our own blinkered sort of
space
but then I'll walk past sometimes and
I'll realize I've not said hello to
someone. I'll go back and say I'm really
sorry and I I'll you know I'll say hi
are you okay? And I do feel like even
when in the office there is no I sit
next to people in the office. I don't
sort of have my own
glove tower.
Yeah. I don't I don't I make sure I go
and sit in cafe football in the hotel or
I'll go and sit in the main restaurant
at stocks or at Sulford. I'll just go
and sit in the main office because the
idea that basically you know he was he
did have his own office and he did have
his own space and he did to be fair
delegate and he would keep his but I so
I don't think I'm I'm like Sir Alex in
the way in which I now look at my
business. I do believe it's very
different now. Um but he was very the
staff loved him. Everybody loved him at
the club because he protected them. He
knew everybody's name. He asked about
the families. He knew the family's
names. He He was really really
attentive. He's He was far better at
that than I am. Far better in that that
I But I probably, to be fair, mix with
my teams more than he maybe would. So,
but the work ethic is the thing.
Honestly,
the only thing you can ever do in life
is work as hard as you possibly can and
never give in. And he said, "You've got
that choice every single day." really
simple. That's it. The talent you've
got, you just work as hard as you can
every single day and never give in and
then you come back the day after and do
it again. And that's it. That's the
secret to what he believed because he
said the talent is his problem. Forget
talent. I've chosen you to be here. So,
I'm telling you, you've got the talent.
Don't you worry about that bit. What I
need back in return is that other bit,
which is the the focus, the commitment,
the dedication to make sure every single
day you get up and you're here and you
give your all and you don't give in. And
that's why I think I stayed where I was
because I believed him. I trusted in
him. And now it's the same. If someone
comes into our business and they've been
selected to come in, that's because I
believe they've got the talent or
someone in our senior management team
believe they've got the talent. All they
have to do in return now is go for it
and give their all and be enthusiastic
and not give in and then come back the
day after and do it again. And I keep it
try and keep it as simple as that. I
know there's a lot more to it than that,
but it is it was that simple for us. I
know then there's the tactics then
there's decision making then there's the
sort of concent all the things that go
with it but that was the sort of heart I
think of every all the messaging that we
got from him
they almost seem like old fashion values
what you're saying it it almost sounds
and I'm going to be honest it almost
sounds like
what the modernday professional culture
might consider to be a little bit toxic
you know what I mean
this this drive for hard work but I have
to say never sat here with anybody
that's reached the peak of their powers
in their career that hasn't said the
same.
But now if I'm in my businesses, so I
don't things like
I I don't have I'd never work the first
week in January. I think it's the most
depressing week of the year after
Christmas, you've had a high and then
you go back, it's dark, it's miserable
that first week. So I always take it
off, but I always give the rest of our
team in the office that I work in off as
well. So I don't make people do what I'm
not going to do. I'm going away I think
in three weeks for five days. And I said
to everybody in the office, don't worry
about the fact you've got 28 days in
your contract. Those five days you're
off. Have the last five days off of the
summer. Then we'll go for it to
Christmas. Also people have flexible
working. They can come in Monday. They
don't have to come in Tuesday. They can
come in Wednesday. I trust them to do
what they want. So there is an element
of yeah I want I do expect hard work but
I also want people to have a brilliant
time and sharing the success that we
have but also make sure that if I'm off
I would expect that they have those
times off as well. I wouldn't expect
them to come in. Uh I I don't I hate the
idea of of a work package that's got
like you got 25 days holiday you have to
book it in. I hate that. I hate the idea
of restriction. I hate it. I feel like
it's bullying. You must sit there in the
office. I hate it. It's not right. It is
not right. Don't tell people where to
sit, how to work. You know, obviously
there is a direction and there is a
leadership that's needed, but I just
feel it's really not acceptable.
Particular this was pre-COVID.
Our office is like, to be fair, this
this this room that we're in here now,
so someone could be sat there, someone
could be sat there, someone could be sat
on the floor over there with a with with
a, you know, on a laptop. That that's
how it should be in an office. It should
always be like that. I think I don't
think it needed I don't think it ever I
don't think you needed co to make modern
business act properly with the teams
that they work with. So I I I do feel
it's very different than how we were at
United which is old fashioned B. There's
still some old fashioned values. You
have to work hard. We have to get the
job done. We know that. But why do you
have to say that to people? I think
people know they have to work hard and
get the job done. So why do you have to
say that to them? You're looking to tap
into them. Make something unique in your
business that makes them want to stay.
really that's what you saw. You may want
to make it enjoyable
and that [clears throat] can still be
enjoyable through hard work. I think I
think it's quite enjoyable working.
[laughter]
No. Well, I know people that work for
you obviously cuz you know we've got a
got a got a colleague that used to work
for me that works for you now and
they're all very very complimentary. So
that's supported [laughter] by that's
supported by the evidence that I have.
Um but you're right. I I've always found
that the contradiction there is trust.
You're saying to your team members to
trust you but you're not trusting them.
And trust I feel like has to go both
ways. And so and there's and the other
what ends up happening when you have
those in my experience those very rigid
rules is you'll get compliance but you
won't get like motivation and as you've
described it you want people to be
internally driven not compliant because
of punishment.
Yeah.
And that gets the best out of people.
Right. It's interesting because um
Valencia taught me a lot but around that
time I was with England coaching with
Roy Hudson um and I'd lived at United
where we were we were fined you know
Nunez got sent off last night for
headbutting
Anderson that's two weeks wages at
Manchester United I got fined two weeks
wages regularly four or five times it
happens football it's wouldn't happen in
a normal workplace but we know Sir Alex
Ferguson's rules if you violent conduct
or um chatting back to a referee,
you get fined. In fact, he won't accept
it. People think Alex Ferguson was like,
"Get after the referees." But if we
actually got booked for having a go at a
referee, we would get fined. So, very
much quite a rigid thing. And then Roy
Hudson said something to me when I was
with England. And I felt as though
standards were slipping a little bit one
time. I can't remember exactly what it
was about. And I said, "We need some
rules." Because I had we'd had a code of
conduct at United. I was the players
rep. I knew what the sort of standards
were and he said to me we don't set
rules he said be very careful with
rules. Uh he said because it's always
the people that you don't want to break
them that break them.
I thought it's quite clever that and
ever since there are no rules. There are
no rules in our business in terms of you
must be here you must do this you must
wear that you must you know I don't
expect formality in in dress. I I expect
people to be comfortable. So I don't say
you should wear this or you should be
here at that time or we should we've got
to do that in any part of my business. I
don't create rules anymore because once
you create rules for a start it's rigid.
I don't believe it's right and the rules
are there. They're unwritten actually.
The rules of sort of working hard and
turning up and doing your job all the
things the rules are there just they
just don't have to be written down. Um
and you know he said what happens if
your star player walks in that's
breaking because you know the ones that
you know we were talking about that were
setting the low standards he said what
happens if one of the star player walks
in and we need to work with the players
to make sure that they understand what
we expect of them and the standards. We
don't need to set rules because if you
set rules and consequence and punishment
then it'll be the one that you don't
want to break them and then you're in a
big you know you're in big trouble. So,
it was it was a good lesson for me. And
in football, it's very much a different
place than a normal workplace anyway.
It doesn't live by HR rules. A football
dressing room. It doesn't. It doesn't.
You know, players are still getting
fined. Players still get told where to
be, when to turn up, what to wear. We
like it as well. I still like it now.
Actually, I I like actually being told
what to do. I actually like it at Sky
when people say to me, "Gary, we're
doing this." You know, I like being told
what to I respond to it really well
because I've had it to be fair. But I've
been instructed from Eric Harrison, Noby
Styles, Brian Kidd, Sir Alex Ferguson.
I've been instructed. I live through the
70s and 80s. You could not live through
the 70s and 80s as a child, early 90s,
without being instructed because that
was the form of leadership. So we still
respond to it a little bit in our own
lives. But then when I think about my
children, I don't instruct them. I like
independent thinking. I like them. And
so when people talk about social media
or people talk about, you know, I was
sat with someone yesterday who said, you
know, I'm I'm fearing my my children go
on social media, I I I always say to
them, your children should get good at
social media really quickly because they
have to they have to they have to be
good at it. So my children are 13 years
of age now. They're both they're all
obsessed with social media with the
apps. They're on it all the time. And
you know, sometimes we'll say, you know,
that's enough tonight and you know,
let's come off it. But I want them to
get good at it. I want them to use it
and find out what information they can
trust and what they can't trust. I use
Twitter now all the time for my well one
to have a debate.
Very good at it to be fair,
but also to actually my news. It's my
major source of news is Twitter. It's my
major source of news in my life. It's
really helpful. I don't think as a
sports journalist broadcaster I could
live without Twitter. It's really
important to me. So when people say
Twitter's a cesspit, get off it. There
are elements of it that are, but that's
a really important thing for me in my
life because I find all the sort of
articles, all the sort of opinions,
you know, all the breaking news is
there. How can I live without that? It's
what I rely upon to be able to do my
job. So, when I come off the pitch last
Sunday doing Manchester United doing
West Ham Man City and I see Manchester
United bid for Arnau, I used to have to
wait till the morning after for the
newspaper 15 years ago. Our children
aren't like that anymore. They want
things instantly. They see things
quickly and they don't like to be
instructed. We have to collaborate with
them.
There's an inevitability, you're
completely right, to social media and
the internet and digital that will
actually I believe as well will serve as
a disadvantage to them if they if they
don't keep up
because you can't think of a profession
these days that doesn't involve
social media or the internet. So you're
you're you know in in an effort to try
and protect children sometimes we
actually cause them a pretty substantial
career disadvantage.
It should be taught at schools. It
should be on the curriculum,
social media, how to use it,
when to what to use it for, how to get
good at it,
the dangers,
the dangers of it or it should be
something that's taught. It's got to be
more useful to them than some of the
subjects that they're currently
being taught in 2022. Yeah.
Yeah. you you know when you and this is
I mean this is not a nice topic to talk
about because we're both Manchester
United fans but through all you've been
through in the era you grew up in and
all of those famous influences you had
that instilled those values in you
um and even the early initiations you
had in that dressing room from the
senior players and
you know I read about all of that stuff
as well when you look at what's going on
at the club today even though you're not
you're not in the dressing room you must
have a pretty pretty strong hypothesis
as to why Manchester United in 2022 two
are failing based on what you
experienced.
Yeah, I think a lack it comes down to a
lack of leadership and direction from
the top and vision and um a
deterioration of the sort of beliefs
over a long period of time. I said last
night actually that um a school that's
underperforming over a long period of
time and getting poor results gets put
in special measures by offstead and by
government. And they're not blaming the
kids. It means that the governors, it
means that the sort of the head
teachers, the people at the top of the
organization at the school have not
basically set the standards for those
children and they've let the school
basically rot and the results become
poor. I think that's what's happened at
United. It was a high performing school.
The head teacher has left. The board of
the governors left, David Gil. And
what's happened since is that they've
been replaced with people who haven't
got it. and poor standards have just
meant that ultimately over a period of
time there's become an embedded rot and
that's what's happened and all the kids
the players look now like they haven't
got a clue anymore and they're getting
poor results I don't believe all those
Manchester United players that are on
that pitch are poor players when they
came to the club some of those players I
was really excited by their arrivals
and I've seen players that weren't as
good as them go to other clubs and excel
so the environment the culture the
yeah the enthusiasm that you need to go
into work every single day I don't
believe has been created by the
hierarchy at the club and then there's
been a sort of a a a lack of investment
into the facilities into the stadium
into the training ground so now
Tottenham Liverpool Liverpool now
Liverpool football I used to laugh when
I used to go to Anfield when I used to
compare it to Old Trafford I used to
think they can never catch up they're
too far behind they're just building
that second stand now behind that left
hand goal where the away fans sit. We
saw it last night towering up. The main
stand now is towering up and it holds I
don't it holds 20,000. Anfield will be a
more modern ground than Manchester
United and Old Trafford in 12 months.
That is unforgivable
from to think where not they overtaken
us on the pitch but actually they've
overtaken us off the pitch. Manchester
City are light years ahead on and off
the pitch. Tottenham have invested 1.3
billion in stadium. You you've been to
Tottenham Stadium?
Oh yeah. It's out of this world. It's a
It's a
best in the world.
It's a museum. It's the best in the
world. I can't believe what I'm walking
through when I see it. And yet, if you
go to their training ground, which I've
been to,
it's an amazing, brilliant facility that
is far better than Carrington where we
moved to in 2001. [snorts] We moved to
Carrington, sorry, 2000. We moved to
Carrington. We left the Cliff Training
Ground in Sulford. So, it's 22 years.
It's had a bit of investment, but in 20
years, Manchester United have not
invested in the stadium. They've not
invested in the training ground that
much. and then they've lost the two main
people and before you know it you've got
a club that's really struggling and I've
said that in the last couple of years
the only thing that I really do think
can change it now is the is is the
ownership and I say that on here more
calmly than I say on Sky Sports but it's
it's not an emotive subject anymore.
It's a very serious issue. There is an
embedded rot at the club.
You know that they're walking past
Wendy's balls now, don't you?
You know what I mean?
No.
As in like signing Wendy's balls.
Oh, sorry. personified for me
caring about values in every single
touch point, even the small stuff.
And so I was thinking then I can almost
imagine now those small expressions of
our values as you said they come from
the top down are probably now being
missed. And it's funny because as fans
we look at the thing we go, "Oh, he's
not running fast enough or we'll blame
this player or Fred's this player
whatever." But when you've when you've
worked for me when I've worked in an
organization, I realize that the values,
the culture, everything starts from the
top. And if you bring in great and as
we've seen at Manchester United, you can
bring in the best stars into a bad
culture, they'll become bad performers.
Yeah.
And um I always I always said in a
business context as well, if the culture
is strong enough, new people become the
culture. If the culture is weak, the
culture becomes the new people.
It's why I was kept at the age of 33 to
36 in the room.
Because you were a disciple of the
culture
because because Rafael Silva from Brazil
comes in. I'm the right back. That's the
senior right back. And who does he look
to? He looks to me. He looks to
Paul Scholes. He looks to Rio Ferdinand
and he sees people that are at the very
top of the game. They're experienced
that are end of the careers. That's why
I looked at Steve Bruce and Brian
Robson, Eric Canar. I had nowhere to go
as a young player. I knew I had to do
what they had to do else because they
were all doing it every single day and
they've been doing it for 15 years. I do
feel sorry for the current players and
that won't go down well with a lot of
Manchester United fans because a lot of
Manchester United fans will say they're
overpaid and they're chancing it and
bluffing it. They're not. They're not. I
know some of those lads. They're good
lads. If they were sat here now with me
and you, you'd be thinking there's an
element of vulnerability there. There is
a lack of confidence. They're crying out
for help. I wish they had Sir Alex. I
wish they had Roy Keane in the changing
room with Nmanovic and Rio Ferdinand at
center back and Peter Schmeichel in goal
because if they did, they would grow,
they would thrive, they would deliver.
If the Manchester United team today was
David Dee in goal, Patrice Ever at left
back, Harry Magguire at center back with
Varane. It was me at right back. In
midfield there was Roy Keane and Michael
Carrick.
On the left was Marcus Rashford. On the
right was Jadden Sancho.
up front was Martial with
Rooney or Hughes.
Those same five or six players that
we're currently saying can know and know
not not good enough to play for
Manchester United. They would be
outstanding if Sir Alex Ferguson was the
manager if the culture was still there.
It's I don't honestly and that might be
I don't even know what I've just said to
be fair. I've not said it before, but
you know what I'm trying to say. You
surround yourself by those people who've
got those standards, who've got that
experience, who can cradle you through
the difficult moments like we were when
we were young players when we won when
people said we won the league with kids.
We didn't. We wouldn't have won the
league without the experienced players
in that dressing room around us and the
guidance of St. Alex Ferguson. They've
not got that guidance off the pitch and
they've not got that guidance and
comfort on the pitch. I used to walk out
in the tunnel with Peter Schmeichel in
front of me, Roy Keane in front of him,
behind me. Obviously, David Beckham
always went behind me, but Dennis Irwin
in front of me. I felt safe. I was 21,
22, 23 years of age. I felt safe. I felt
comfortable because I knew I was being
looked after by experienced people. I
knew that I was wasn't alone. These
players go out onto the pitch now, they
feel alone. They don't feel like they've
got anybody. That's where I am a little
bit critical of Cristiano. You're the
man. You're the star.
You're the You're the best player in the
world.
Come on. Now's not a time to be throwing
your arms around. Now's not a time to be
walking off the pitch. Now's the time to
make sure you lead those people. But he
wants to leave. He wants to go and play
somewhere else. And that might happen.
And who could blame him? He wants to
finish his career at a club that's
achieving great things. But I I do think
he is the only player in that dressing
room that could lead them cuz he's the
only one that's got the inbuilt
resilience and mental strength to get
through a moment like it won't be
touching him this other than on a
personal frustration level. The fact
that he's playing a team that isn't
giving him the chances, the goals, the
success he wants. But on a point of view
of criticism, he won't be touching him.
He's he's seen he's he's played at Real
Madrid. He's played at Manchester
United. He's won five, six Champions
Leagues. He's won Ballindor. He's not.
You can't touch him with the criticism
or words. It's impossible. So, he can
withstand all this pressure and protect
those players on the pitch. That's what
I think Roy Keane did with us, what
Peter Schmeichel did, what Canton did,
what Robson did, they protected us.
If I took prime Cristiano Ronaldo when
he came in from Portugal and I put him
in today's team,
he'd struggle.
He'd struggle. I think he really would
struggle without Sir Alex's guidance,
without the patience of Sir Alex and
Carlos Keros who had that patience with
him at the time.
Do you think his career would look
entirely different?
It would look different. You know, you
speak to Paul Gascoin and ask Paul
Gascoin when he chose Tottenham over
Manchester United and he says that if
he'd come to Manchester and worked with
Sir Alex, he feels as though his career
and his life would have gone down a
different path. And that's why I said at
the very start of this interview, why am
I like I am? I was very fortunate that I
wasn't in the center of London at 22
being led by experienced players who
wanted to go to nightclubs or to bars. I
was in Manchester
with Dennis Irwin and Sir Alex Ferguson
and Roy Keane and Mark Hughes and Brian
Robson who don't get me wrong, they like
to night out, but they knew also that
that had to come at the right time and
they would be responsible and make sure
you delivered on the pitch. So I I feel
blessed and privileged by the influences
that I had in my life. We talk about
influences now in a different way, don't
we?
But actually, we're heavily influenced
by the people that we come into contact
with. And that's where your luck comes
in in life because I can't choose who I
come into contact with in life. You
know, you walk into a business to take a
job. You don't know the other 150 people
in the business. There could be some
really good people in there that
influence you well and make it really
comfortable for or there could be some
bad eggs that mean that you have to have
a bad experience and it influences you
in a different way. I just got really
lucky throughout my career that I
arrived at United when they started
winning the Premier League.
I then obviously had a brilliant
manager. I had brilliant senior players.
I had good parents.
Everything was right in my life to
influence me to be what I am today.
Without that, I'm not the person I am. I
wasn't Gary Neville. resilient, tough,
mentally strong, could handle anything,
better work ethic than anybody else when
I was 10. I wasn't. I was a kid, just to
be fair, going to school like everyone
else. But I had exceptional people
around me, I believe, that helped me.
And I don't believe these lads now in
that dressing room have got that around.
Well, they haven't got that around them.
I had a thought cross my mind for the
first time ever this week. And as a
Manchester United,
we're going to go down. Well, [laughter]
well, I grew up my birth year was 1992,
so I've only ever known great times at
Manchester United pretty much. And it
was the first time
that I played out the scenario in my
head that it's not guaranteed that we
return to being champions. It's all I've
ever known.
And it was the first time that I started
doing the equation of like how do great
clubs fall? And this is one of the years
where I've seen one of the real
catalysts is okay, so the brand starts
to deteriorate. They lose commercial
deals. Then great players like Harland
and Nunez,
yeah,
don't choose the club.
Then we So we can't get great talent. We
then don't have the money to get the
great talent at an inflated price which
we could have paid in in the first
couple of years after the downfall. And
then I'm thinking, okay, so this could
we could there's there's a chance, and I
hate to say it because I'm an internal
optimist. It's embarrassing, but every
year when we do a little score
predictions in my football chat, I'm
like, we're going to win the league.
Every year [laughter]
for the last three years, I'm I'm
deluded. But this was the first time I
entertained the thought that we might
it's not guaranteed that we return to
the club we were.
Um I I put us in the top four. I did it
last week and our predictions. But you
know something I know full well we're
not going to finish in the top four but
have to just because it's the Manchester
United inbuilt thing that you say we're
going to finish in the top four but
that's how our expectations have dipped
as well because we used to say we're
going to finish top.
Yeah.
Um no I'm convinced Manchester United
will return. Absolut absolutely
convinced.
Why?
It's not arrogance this and it's not
because I'm biased and it's not because
I've gone to watch the club since the
age of five. I've traveled around the
world with the club for the last 30 40
years. I've
seen the extent of the fan base, the
emotion that exists within the fan base,
the scale of the club, and it's too the
foundations are too deep.
But those foundations were created
because of like generational success.
Yeah. But we had a we had obviously you
we had the Busby Babes period with Somat
Busby. Then we had 30 years 25 years
before Sir Alex brought home a league
title. So we've had 25 years before that
we've gone through without success.
Manchester United
um is not going away. It's not going
it's too big. It's too big. It's too
magical. It's too good. That is not that
is not emotion. That that is just I I
feel very very strongly about that. That
is there is an element of cycle here.
that you know we get in sort of our down
period but we shouldn't accept that
because I'm happy to lose football
matches. I'm happy to be fourth in the
league, third in the league, sixth in
the league if we're doing the right
things. So have we got a world
Manchester United should always have a
world-class stadium. It hasn't. It
should always have best-in-class
training facility. It should always have
best-in-class fan experience. It should
always buy the best be for the best
players in the Premier League. It should
always have young talent coming through.
And you should always buy should always
buy young emerging talent from overseas.
It's veered away from all five or six of
its key principles and objectives that
it's always ever had. Any business does
that then it's in trouble. You've got
owners that to be fair are now taking
dividends out of the club. They're
taking big large payments in debt out of
the club or interest payments on the
debt out of the club. All the money that
the club generates to be fair is not
going back into the club and it's now
come home to roost. They only own 69 70%
of the club and they need a billion quid
to be able to fulfill those
infrastructure projects that are needed.
There walls are closing in on them and
they do need to do something big through
partnership or through an investor or
through a sale in the next I think six
to 12 months. This cannot go on. That
was a watershed moment at Brenford on
Saturday. what we were all experiencing
in that stadium and I didn't obviously
know you were in the stadium at that
time but now I know you were and you
said you were just compelled to stay
because you couldn't leave everybody
that I've spoken to was like I've not
seen too many things like that in 30
years of Premier League football and
actually
I never want Manchester United to lose
but actually it could have been an
important moment and a and a big moment
where you actually start to think like
you're thinking could we you know people
have said could we be relegated I said
last night on television if you bring
poor players in in this next couple of
weeks or don't bring players in and
Cristiano does leave, which I think he
may, we could finish in the bottom half
of the table with a 1.25 billion pound
transfer spend in the last 8 to 10 years
and finish in the bottom half of the
table.
And so we are starting to think that
way, but I have no doubts it's going to
return. It's it's it's too big. It's too
good. It's fan base is too great. It's
it's enormous. It's it's I go I've been
a I've been abroad and watched seen
50,000 people watch us train in Thailand
and in Malaysia and in Singapore and
I've seen Manchester the passion still
for the club is huge and so it it's
still full now.
Yeah. It's just I just get concerned
that if you know there's another
generation that are growing up without
the the experience I had and who are
they going to choose in terms of you
know
Yeah.
We'll lose some we have to lose some
along the way. There was some collateral
damage.
Depends how long we go through this. If
this is two decades, then that's a whole
generation that never saw what we saw
growing up. So,
City
City have done brilliant things. Pep
Guardiola is a genius. The football is
mesmerizing. The operation is slick.
Um,
but I say this because it will bring,
you know, criticism from probably some
football fans and certainly from
Manchester City fans. It will never ever
be Manchester United. And that's not
arrogance. It just cannot be
what?
Manchester City. It can never replace
Manchester United in terms of scale and
size. It can win trophies. It can win
more trophies, but it can never be
bigger in scale and size. It's
impossible. It does not have the roots,
the history, the It just does not have
it. Manchester United is too set. We'll
see. I'm I'm not I'm not worried about
the long term. I'm very worried about
the short term. Um, what one of the
things that people don't know about you,
I believe, because I was I'm, you know,
I'm fairly well read on on what you do,
but I didn't realize this is just the
scale of your kind of business
portfolio.
It's it's quite honestly mental.
[snorts] I don't do all of the med the
the media stuff that you do. I'm not,
you know, on on TV all the time
presenting football. I'm not in that
arena. And when I look at your business
portfolio and mine, I'm going this guy
does as much as I do from a business
perspective, but you're not you're not
known to the world first and foremost as
an entrepreneur. Maybe that's the second
thing. People know you as a football
legend. Second second thing will be
entrepreneur. And the second thing is
you don't even like the word
entrepreneur.
Not really. No, I don't I suppose it's
like broadcast I don't like the word
broadcaster. Maybe it's a lack maybe
that is an insecurity actually or a
vulnerability. People say to me, you're
a broadcaster, but I don't feel like a
broadcaster. I don't feel like I've
earned, you know, I feel like Martin
Tyler or
um, you know, Dez Linham. They're
broadcasters.
They're journalists. They've they're
experienced. They do it. I don't feel
like a broadcaster because I feel still
feel young, but I'm not young anymore
that really in terms of been doing it
now for 11 12 years. And same with
entrepreneur. If you if I always feel
there's something a little bit can I
swear for all the family.
It feels a little bit wankerish.
[laughter]
Yes.
To say I'm an entrepreneur. Sounds
wankerish. Gary Neville, CEO and
entrepreneur. It's like no, Gary
Neville, chairman of the Relentless
Group, an entrepreneur. No, makes me
sort of skin crawl a little bit, but I
think to be fair, probably I should
start calling myself that because I do
have the there is one constant. They're
all in Greater Manchester
apart from a media career which can
sometimes obviously be in London, but
they're all in Greater Manchester in
Sulford, Trafford, Manchester City
Center, and I feel very focused around
my investments in that. And some people
would say that's naive. You should
expand beyond Greater Manchester. No,
I'm passionate about where I come from,
where I live, and I want to invest back
in to that part of the country. So, the
two hotels, the football club, the
developments that we're doing, the
university, um the project management
consultancy, all of them in Greater
Manchester. Uh and I want to continue to
do things. I don't think I'll do many
more startups, although the overlap is a
startup, but just startups are hard. Do
you think startups are hard?
Oh, they're so painful.
It's [laughter] so painful. the
rewarding but the pain I mean all of
mine have been startups
right
so apart from Sulford which to be fair
is a bit of a startup it was like eighth
tier they had 170 fans they're all
startups so not one of them has been
sort of a business that I've bought into
which I'm not sure that that's that's
the way I like it because we can
influence them and we can make them our
you know our culture can come into the
sort of businesses um but yeah I wanted
to do a lot in business but in Greater
Manchester build teams it's the teams
part of it that gives me great
satisfaction and then
Yeah, I love the sectors that I'm in.
And you, it's crazy because when I look
at your businesses, when I've looked
closely at them, you run really
good businesses as it relates to
attention to detail. Your hotel in
Manchester, the Stock Exchange Hotel, I
have to say, is by far my favorite
hotel. It's not even close. When I
filmed Dragon's Den the first year, um,
all the Dragons stay at the Lowry,
[laughter]
even though it was my first year, I was
like, "Please go stay at the Stock
Exchange Hotel." And I stayed there.
It's by far in a way there's nothing
close to it in Manchester in my view.
No. And I have to say some of my so the
university I think is more of a social
project of trying to be more inclusive
and sort of remove the barrier to higher
education. The football club started off
as a sort of a a more of a social
project in terms of bringing young
players through and believing in young
talent in football like we've been
believed in. But then I also have this
other side of me which is I want to
raise standards
and we wanted hospitality to be at the
highest level in Manchester and the
stock exchange was my ambition to create
the number one hotel premium hotel in
Manchester luxury hotel.
The same with the development St.
Michaels which we hope to be the new
number one hotel in Manchester when it's
built a new five-star hotel. Manchester
only has one five-star hotel in the city
center. I know Lowry is in Sul but they
also have one fivestar hotel. So then
some people will throw at me, you know,
how does that sit with your sort of
social conscience that you've got these
sort of expensive apartments, you've got
these expensive hotel rooms, you charge
£40 for a steak.
And I'm like, I think it's okay to be
offended by Manchester not having enough
affordable housing and also not having
highass luxury accommodation and luxury
product. I'm offended by both. Why does
Manchester all have to be sort of
pigeonholed into this three fourstar
market? So this idea that in Manchester
is that you know and I get called
champagne socialist sometimes and
sometimes get criticized for the fact
that I have a university that is trying
to improve you know inclusion and and
and and and access to higher education
but then oh Neville he's just basically
he's selling developments you know he's
he's he's selling apartments for5600,000
he's he's you know his rooms are £250300
at Hotel football or at Stock Exchange
but I'm I'm offended by the fact that we
can't raise the standards at sort of the
highest level and the fact that we can't
look after people and make sure that
everyone's got the sort of a house to be
able to live in that's of a comfortable
size and in in the area they want to
live in. So I feel that I'm
um a little bit torn between my projects
in what I feel but I want high standards
in our city. I want Man I'm offended
that Manchester does not have five-star
international standard hotels. It
offends me that London always has to
have these things or that Paris, you
know, why do people from Manchester have
to go to Paris or London to experience
five-star hospitality and service? We
should be able to get it in our city.
So, I want to drive investment into our
city um and raise the standards. That
was that was what the sock exchange was
about, raising standards of hospitality.
And we got to number one, which was
brilliant. I mean it's but you're right
because if there isn't that supply there
for the high end then the economy is
going to suffer because you're right it
won't attract business it won't attract
um investment into the city you know if
and that's you know I love coming to
Manchester because I and you didn't pay
me to say this but I love going staying
at the stock exchange hotel it's better
than my house and the standards there
are you know unbelievable politics
you've become quite um political spec
specifically on Twitter in terms of
social issues and
to shed lights on shed light
in politics.
What is the thinking there?
I know something. I think it's Look, the
thinking is that I don't think it's not
acceptable to be quiet anymore if you're
in a position of influence
and if you're seeing something that's
wrong.
It's like your stance on the Glazes.
Yeah, I think it's got to the point
whereby I was I was quiet when I played
at the club and to be fair we were
winning. So you think, well, okay,
winning to be fair covers everything.
And then when you leave, you think,
well, hang on a second. You know, let's
let them have time after Sir Alex
Ferguson. But it's got to the point now
whereby I can't keep my mouth shut on
it. It's wrong. It is just wrong. Same
with uh with with Johnson. Eventually,
his own party got to the same position
that I was at and many others. It's
wrong. We cannot have someone like that
leading our country. I'm passionate
about our country.
Are you ever going to do politics?
No, I won't do politics. And the reason
I say that is that, you know, sometimes
you have this idea in your head, don't
you, that you think, could you go in?
But the reality of it is it means that I
wouldn't be able to be as honest as I am
on television. I wouldn't be able to do
the Sky Sports. I wouldn't be able to do
the media. I wouldn't be able to do my
projects in Manchester because I'd feel
conflicted with different things. And I
don't think I can. I think I'm more I
think I can have a greater influence in
Greater Manchester and with my voice in
the media than I would do being an MP
for Berry South.
I genuinely believe that. I think I get
caught up and stuck in the treele and
the mud like everybody else.
Yeah,
that's what people say about politics.
Just go in there and you just get stuck.
Um, and I I don't want to be stuck. I
want to be able to try and influence
things in the private sector away from
public sector. And we'll get called a
champagne socialist for it. And we'll
get attacked heavily in the last 12
months by people from the right side of
um the country in terms of you know
regularly every single day will get
attacked for being a champagne socialist
when I talk about safety to the stock
exchange or I talk about um you know the
St. Michael's development. And then they
say, well, how can you be arguing
against Boris Johnson and how can you be
arguing how can you be in the Labor
Party? There's this idea that you can't
be in the Labor Party and be
entrepreneurial and be successful and
earn money that the Labor Party have got
to change that perception. They've got
to
they've got to change that perception.
How is it that you cannot be someone who
owns a business, makes profit, hands
that profit back to its shareholders and
to the teams that you work with, create
a great environment for them to work,
pay them well, and that you believe
everybody should have an equal
opportunity. How can you not be Labor
and have those principles? Because we've
been basically conditioned to think that
it's only the Tory party that is good
for business and the Labor Party has
created that.
It's so true. It's one of the things
that's really made me feel quite
disenfranchised. I grew up with in a
labor family that I mean I've never
voted for in my life but in recent years
as I've become more um successful in my
career. I almost feel a little bit
sometimes by some people not everybody
on the left but some people on the left
that I'm inherently evil because of my
success like I'm inherently a bad person
because I'm an entrepreneur or a CEO and
that that p pushes you out. It almost
pushes you into this middle. I'm not
going over to the right but and I want
to belong somewhere. So you're
completely right and I don't think
that's talked about enough. I was saw I
saw an interview on social yesterday
actually in the middle of Monday Night
Football and it was an interview it was
only released yesterday. It was with K
Star Dmer and the gentleman asking him
said you know what do you earn and he
said I earn £130,000 a year and he was
about to start a line of questioning
around K's position on um energy and the
fact that well you can afford the £3,000
£4,000 energy bills this year. I was
offended by that line of questioning.
the leader of the opposition in this
country. Politicians in my opinion
should be the highest quality of
business people and entrepreneurs to be
able to deliver the plan that we all
want. I think that we need to encourage
people to go into politics and the idea
that the leader of the opposition was
being attacked because he was on
£140,000 because he's a labor
politician. It's almost like you're a
Labor politician. You shouldn't take the
MP's salary. You should almost donate
that to charity and work for like
nothing. I mean, that's just ridiculous.
So the perception of Labor and what
people think about Labor is that if
you're in the Labor Party, you have to
be on minimum wage. You have to be a
socialist. You have to think like that.
No, you can think in a capitalist way,
but with some compassion and feel like
you can be equal with other people and
and spread your wealth and that actually
you can want people to be able to afford
their energy bills and you can fight for
them even if you're in a sort of wealthy
position yourself. Why can't I or you
fight for people who can't afford their
energy bills this winter just because we
have a bank account that's more than
people would like it to be? I I I don't
get that.
I don't get that. I don't understand it.
Yeah. It's a weird thing. I I I don't
get it. And we have to change that, I
think, to perception. And that's why I
joined the Labour Party to think that
actually I can be successful. I'm a
northern
from a northern family that have done
well. I've I've earned good money and
continue to earn good money. But my
principles where I am now, even though
I'm an entrepreneurial
individual who, to be fair, has profit
making companies, I can be uh I can be
labor. I can think with with a social
conscience. I I I don't think that's a
problem.
To me, that has to be the future of the
Labour Party, I have to say, because
then I'll
And you're the leader of it.
Well, I I I [laughter] won't go into
this either. No, no, no, no, no. I No,
no. this is enough. I like my life. I
don't want, you know, I [laughter] get
criticized as it is. But but um no, I I
also have felt really disenfranchised by
the left that I grew up um feeling part
of for that very reason. And I I would
love if anything to to see the next
leader of the party really speak to that
and that would make me feel um energized
again about politics. You talked about
being attacked. You've talked about this
unbelievable relentless work ethic you
have. When I say attacked, you get
attacked every day on social media as
you said, but because you've got a big
voice, you have it's unavoidable.
You've talked about this relentless work
ethic you have and you've talked about
how you had that moment where you
collapsed one day.
Over the last 10 years, our
understanding of mental health and male
mental health has risen tremendously.
When I was growing up, to have a mental
health issue meant that you were crazy.
That's what I thought. That was the
stigma. We've come so far, thankfully,
from that perception.
What has your experience been with
understanding your own mental health
over the last couple of decades? And
have you ever had a moment where you've
gone, I need to put my mental health
first now? Because, you know, other than
that collapse moment where you've
experienced anxiety or depression or
these kinds of ailments. Yeah, I think
that obviously losing my confidence as a
football player, being criticized,
stopping to having to stop reading the
newspapers of the day when at the age of
24. Didn't read a national news, didn't
read a tabloid newspaper from the age of
24 through to the end of my career.
Why?
Because they were damaging.
Damaging. How?
Um, if you read something really
critical of yourself in a national
newspaper and the thought that then
millions of people are also reading
that, particularly when you're young and
you're vulnerable, it impacts you and
you lose confidence. And I did lose
confidence. So I lost form, got
criticized heavily by newspapers. Would
read the newspapers and it would have a
direct impact on me.
Physical impact is
no no direct impact on me in terms of
how I felt. It would drain me of
confidence and then you get you almost
then lose more conf.
I also at the time had lost um I' come
out of a relationship um with someone
I'd been engaged to and been with for
seven years. So I had two things going
on at once. One I'd lost my form and I'd
come out of a longerterm relationship.
And at that point I did feel really low.
didn't tell anybody as you all you
wouldn't do back in sort of well what
that been
1990 it was 2000 2000 199 yeah 1999 2000
24 25 years of age um made two big
mistakes against Vasco Dama played a
poor tournament for England in Euro 2000
and it went on for 6 months um but went
to see a psychiatrist and I got coping
mechanisms I got coping mechanisms
things that basically he talked to me
about about how to put things into
perspective and that dealt with my
mental health issues at the time and it
also helps me to deal with things that
come forward now of a critical nature.
When you say you were feeling low, what
were the symptoms of feeling low for
those six months?
Not wanting to play, not wanting to take
the ball on the pitch and confident to
take the ball and pass it, hiding a
little bit, fearing games coming
forward, anxious about games coming
forward, thinking about my relationship
breakup during matches, which is un
unthinkable for me. I remember playing a
European game away. I think it was
either in Andlect or somewhere like that
and actually thinking in the middle of
the pitch about my ex-girlfriend and
thinking I'm playing for Manchester
United. This is not what's going on. And
it impacted me and thinking that but
then that happens I'm sure to every
single football player. So I knew that
at that point then I needed to see
somebody because I wasn't playing well.
Um he subbed me against Real Madrid in
the quarterfinal of the European Cup. Um
and had a nightmare, absolute nightmare.
Um, and I thought I remember we won the
league that year at Southampton away
and I remember jumping up. There's a
picture of me jumping up on the pitch
with the rest of the players and me
feeling empty and not even feeling like
celebrating it. I always remember that
and it was the worst league that we ever
won for me, but for others it might have
been a great league. But for me, I just
hated that league. I didn't enjoy it at
all. I feel like I just needed to stop
and you know I felt like I was spinning
on a roundabout and I couldn't get off
it. Um I remember saying that to the
psychiatrist at the time. Um and then he
started to put these little coping
mechanisms in place. So if I get nervous
before a game, think about what you're
going to be doing later on that you're
going to enjoy. If you have a really bad
day, think about something simple like
did you know ask yourself a simple
question. Like I said before, did you
always think you were going to have a
good day every day?
Such a good question.
And I love that question.
Yeah.
Yeah. I thought, I think I'm going to
have some pretty bad days going forward.
It's like self-compassion almost.
Yeah. That's how I That's how I dealt
with my dad. Did I think that my there
was a good chance in my life that my dad
would die before me? Yeah. I I I was
prepared for it. And that's not right.
But that's how I dealt with it. Really
simply, there was always going to come a
point where my parents and grandparents
were likely to die before me, and I
would have to deal with that.
What we can never ever comprehend is
obviously losing someone that's younger
than you in your family. We can't
comprehend that. That's the unthinkable.
That's the one thing if you said to me
that sort of breaks me. Um that, you
know, I think I think would break me
completely. But then on the other side,
we know that, you know, my grandparents
lived till they were in their 80s. My
dad lived till he was 65. I thought I'd
I'd like I'd loved him to have lived
another 10, 15 years, of course, but he
didn't. But I was able to deal with it
through the idea that he lived his life
to the full. He didn't make those
changes that I'm probably not making
now. He carried on going out with my
sister and a mates till 3, 4 in the
morning, having a drink, traveling to
Australia, watching a play, and you
know, living life, watching United every
single weekend, doing the things that he
loved. And you know, his life was taken
away at the age of 65. So I could almost
explain that to myself and deal with it
in a pragmatic way.
Some people say, you know, some people
close to me say I've still not dealt
with it five, six, seven years on
because I' not probably shown the proper
emotion and grief that I should have
done through it, but I feel like I have
dealt with it. I feel like I have dealt
with it um just through being able to
put those coping mechanisms in place. So
I always feel we all need those simple
coping mechanisms. For others, it might
not be the same as me. One of the big
things I think for me is definitely
training. So, I blew up at Sky one
Boxing Day where I just run. I always
got the sprint to Christmas where
everyone tries to get everything in
before Christmas and then you just
collapse when you stop. Boxing day one
year. The only time I've ever missed a
Sky game.
Uh Everton v Hull Boxing Day. I was
going to Hull. I woke up in the morning.
I couldn't get out of bed and I just run
myself into the ground. I'd stopped
training. I was eating too much. I put
weight on. You'll have seen in the first
few years after Sky. And I'd stopped
doing the things that kept me well. So
training now, if I don't train for a
week, I feel terrible. Not just
physically, I feel it up here. I've got
one of those bodies because I've been a
football player.
I know when I've put I feel every chip.
So I I can feel it here. I can pinch
myself. We're all the same as football.
We had our body fats done, you know,
once a week. We're weighing ourselves
every day because we know that's big
part of our performance. Hydration,
nutrition, weight is a big part of our
performance.
And so I know it. I've lived it for 15,
20 years. But then I stopped doing that
for the first five, six years out of
football. And then you blow up and then
you feel awful. You look awful. And
you've got people on Twitter sending
you, you know, Jesus, you're carrying a
bit.
You know what I mean? Stop eating the
chips. Choose the salad. All those
things get sent to you on Twitter. You
know what I mean? And you look at
yourself in the mirror and you think,
"They're right, aren't they?" And then
you start to think, "Oh, I've I've got
to change." So you eat a little bit
better. you eat a lot better and then
you train and training for here is it
just frees me. I I no one likes it. I do
it first thing in the morning but once I
finished it [sighs]
I feel like I can I can go and I wasn't
doing that. So that's an important part
of my mental health strategy now is just
to feel better by the one thing I need
to deal with is alcohol because I like a
glass of wine. You know, I I drink one
or two glasses of wine, but co I was
drinking one or two glasses of wine
every night.
And then now, even now, I'm at just I'm
at home tonight. Sold for the plane
home. I can't wait. It's one of the
greatest moments in my life. Now,
tonight you will get nothing out of me
between 7:45 and 10:00. Sold for the
plane away at Newport. I'm not going,
but I'm going to put the feed on on my
telly, but I I'll have a glass of wine.
And I'm It's a magical moment, but I
don't need it. So, I've got to stop
doing that. We'll find out [laughter]
tonight. That's why I always Liverpool
are playing. Here we are. [laughter]
2015. Um, your dad passes away. When I
was reading that in your story upstairs
and the age he passed away, it struck a
little bit closer to home because um
[clears throat] I feel like in my life,
my dad has had a tremendous influence on
me and I feel like my relationship is
not as close as it could be with him and
he has outlived all of his siblings but
in my view had a much more stressful
life and he is 65
and um I guess the question I had for
you is like
what advice would you give for me? And
is there anything that you wish you had
said or done whilst you or behaved
differently whilst that person was here
that you now know in hindsight?
Um he's the only I don't ring people. I
don't speak to I don't I don't ring my
brother every day. I don't text my
sister every day. I don't ring my mom
every day. I rang my dad every day.
Three, four times a day. the only
constant in my life every single day my
dad
um advice looking after things what you
up to he loved picking the kids up so I
made I put his office next to our house
as well so that you know cuz basically
he looked after my stuff as well so for
me he was the constant in my life every
single day and that constant's gone now
and I always say this I've still got him
at the top of my favorites in my speed
dials and I never move him and it freaks
me out sometimes times, you know, when
you're clunky with your fingers and you
press the buttons by mistake cuz my
mom's underneath him and you order him
home and some the odd time once a year
maybe or whatever, you press, you know,
dad mob
and it freaks me out a little bit
because I think I and it makes me get
well up a little bit because I think I
used to ring him every single day,
three, four times a day and it just went
overnight. Couldn't I couldn't ring him
anymore. So that's the constant has
gone. So in terms of advice, obviously I
don't know your relationship with my
dad. My dad's relationship with me was
so influential,
but it would be to I say that I think
this sometimes with my mom. What excuse
have I got not to ring my mom every
single day? I've got no excuse not to
ring my mom every single day for two or
three minutes and ask how she is. But I
don't. My brother does. My sister does.
But I don't have that relationship with
my mom. I had it with my dad.
I had it with my dad. So for me, just
speaking to him every single day,
um I I wish
you couldn't tell my dad to stop going
out with my sister and the mates, to
stop going out with his mates, to stop
going to the football, to stop traveling
away to watch United in Europe, all
those things that may have taken years
off his life. Because people say to me,
"Do you miss your dad?"
I say, "I do. But what I miss most is
what he's missing with my children and
my brother's children and my sister's
little boy. That gets to me because I
know how good he was with them. I know I
I saw it for six, seven years. It was
unbelievable.
He adored them. And he was starting to
slow down because of them. He was
starting not he was starting to make
decisions to stay at home to look after
them rather than going out. But he gone
out for 15 years and he had a brilliant
life. did everything, you know. He did
absolutely all those sort of things that
you you you you you read out at the
beginning of the 217 caps and the the
tournaments for my sister. He was at
every single one of them.
He was at every single one of them. He
didn't miss a Manchester United game. I
went I walked out onto the pitch 602
times for Manchester United
and I waved at my dad 602 times there in
that spot every single time. Or in the
away end, I'd have to try and find him.
But that was easy cuz he was 6'2 and he
had a massive big white, you know, head
of hair and I waved at him every single
game and if I didn't wave to my dad
until I found my dad some the odd game
in the away end you Newcastle away you
seen that where you sat up in that top
bit you're like you're looking for ages
and I couldn't settle until I found him.
I couldn't settle. That was one of the
things it's like a superstition whether
it's a routine. So to miss that from my
life, I missed that idea of he was just
there and then I feel comfortable. He's
there, right? I'm okay. Dad, anything
happened? No, no, everything's good. All
right, bye. I spoke to him, you know,
anything. It's that, you know, it's that
that's So
maybe speak to your dad. Maybe
ring him every morning. Maybe make him
your first text.
People say you you've not grieved at
that. Some people close to me do
because they were because they were
expecting
maybe maybe Emma, maybe maybe my sister.
I don't know what Phil thinks about it.
Maybe. I don't know. Because I just
carried on. We all Maybe we all carried
on.
Maybe we all carried on. You know, you
know, on the day that obviously he died,
you know, it was only a couple of weeks
ago, the anniversary of it. You always
text mom, you know, I miss him so much,
Mom. And
you know, I feel that's the one time
where I feel like I connect with my mom
on it. I don't feel like I can even talk
to my mom on it because I know sometimes
that, you know, when when you've got
parents that you're so close to and then
they've been together, what you then
find is my mom's been unbelievable
since, you know, my dad passed away.
She's absolutely unbelievable, my mom.
But there are times when we're out for a
meal together or I can see her and
she'll just disappear and she'll stare
into the distance and I know where she
is.
But I can I never say I know where you
are, Mom. I know what you're thinking
about. I don't feel like I ever should
say that because it's my mom's space.
It's my mom's thought and you know it's
how we deal with it. It's how we deal
with it at home. We just know. And
because if I said to her, "You're all
right, Mom?" But sometimes maybe the are
you all right? Yeah, I'm fine. you never
get anything out of her. That's not what
you know, you don't bring our problems
onto each other. You don't bring your
problems onto each other in our family.
That's how we do it. But that's not
right. We should talk to each other. We
should encourage each other. But it's
just the way we've dealt with things.
But in our businesses now in way we try
all the time to encourage people to
speak to make sure that they reach out,
but it's not how we probably act
internally.
There's a there's almost a bit of um I'm
I'm guessing from what you've described
in a lot of that might have come from
your father that that or was he an
expressive emotionally expressive?
Yeah, he had emotion to be fair. I think
my mom's probably less emotional than my
dad really.
Yeah, I think my dad's quite emotional.
But again, he probably did. Yeah, he
wouldn't push his stuff on to others, I
don't think. But you you didn't do, did
you? You don't do.
I say the 70s and 80s period. You don't
push your stuff on to others because the
parents of my mom and dad grew up coming
out of the world war. [clears throat]
So everything in perspective is that
you've got got a problem.
You've not got a problem. We had
problems back then. So don't you winge
about this.
But we now in this generation now I
think have to adapt and change
because there's a consequence to not
speaking about these things. There is
there is
they stay stored in the back room
somewhere and they come out as you know
alcoholism or other addictions
and we've all seen that in people around
us and it shocks us and surprises us you
know I've got a couple of friends who've
had issues in the last four or five
years that I would never have imagined
would never have even thought and you
think how have I not spotted that how
have I not seen that
how have we not opened up to each other
about that it happens it happens and
that in all walks of our
in all walks of our life. So we have to
we have to encourage it.
Hopefully that's what we're doing here.
Yeah, I hope so.
When you know I read that you when you
look forward at your future you kind of
plan in 10 year cycles. So the obvious
question is what is what is what is the
next 10 years about for you? Because you
know I don't I don't feel like I believe
that you're you're doing what you're
doing because there is some finish line
in sight. [laughter]
No, that's something. It was like when
you set up a university. I remember the
uh vice chancellor of Lancaster said,
"You do realize you're entering into
something with no exit."
I like the idea of that.
No exit. Can't sell UA92. How can we? We
are UA92. Can't sell your own
university. You can't. In my opinion,
you It's what we are. That to me is
perfection. There is no finish line.
Things should go on forever that you've
created. So, we don't think short term.
I don't think short term. I never think
short term. But like I say, I think I
came out of football thinking the next
15 years were critical to establish
myself in business and to try and remove
that tag of Gary Neville, ex-Manchester
United football player. That was my
target. That was my plan. So whether
that be media, whether that be in
business, whatever that might mean. So
I'm three years away from that. I do
feel like there are bumps in the road.
There always are with businesses, but I
feel like I'm on track. I need to
continue to keep working hard and
focused. But I wanted from 50 to 60 to
be laser focused and try and work on one
particular thing. And that would be a
result of my previous 30 years in work.
The football experience, the business
experience, the media experience and
bring it together into something that I
can go and do that's special. I want to
do something special in my life. Um,
special to me. Not necessarily special
in sort of, you know, a greater sense,
but special to me.
I had a few words to say about one of my
sponsors on this podcast. My girlfriend
came upstairs yesterday when I was
having a shower and she said to me that
she tried the Hu protein shake which
lives on my fridge over there and she
said it's amazing, low calories, you get
your 20 odd grams of protein, you get
your 26 vitamins and minerals and it's
nutritionally complete. In the protein
space, there's lots of things, but it's
hard to find something that is nice,
especially when consumed just with water
and that is nutritionally complete and
that has about 100 calories in total
while also giving you your 20 gram of
protein. The salted caramel one, if you
put some ice cubes in it and you put it
in a blender and you try it, is as good
as pretty much any milkshake on the
market just mixed with water. It's been
a game changer for me. I wanted to ask
you a question that I've asked pretty I
think the last 10 guests as well, which
is if you were to view your own personal
happiness and fulfillment as a recipe of
ingredients and these ingredients come
in different quantities, but together
they make you happy. When you look at
that list of ingredients, what do you
think is missing from that recipe for
you to be completely happy?
Is it a good question or a difficult
question? It must be a good one. If I
can't answer it, shut me up. It
Well, I I I this isn't the question, but
I but I've asked the last 10 guests that
exact question, which is, you know, if
you view your happiness as this list of
ingredients and it's a recipe.
Do I have That's the problem. I remember
interviewing Tyson Fury and he said, I
said, "What what what what does success
look like for you or what does the
future I feel?" He said just to be
happy.
I thought how simple is that? I never
think like that.
The goals with
Yeah. Even with football, I never
enjoyed it while I was doing it.
Yeah. It's crazy that
because I just felt so intense. So I
don't feel like I'm ever assessing what
makes me happy or what
why I'm doing what you feel like I'm
just like you said before you're just
doing it. You're dragged.
Yeah.
Yeah. There is an element of that. What
makes me happy? Watching Sulford
and winning makes me happy. Spending
time with my children when they're in a
when they're in their good space makes
me really happy.
What would make you more happy? That's
that's what I'm getting at is if what
ingredient is potentially missing or out
of balance in that recipe.
I know others would say to be present
more.
What would you say?
to be on a mountain in a ski lodge
isolated away from everything.
It's weird, isn't it? [laughter]
Why? Why?
I don't know. I feel free on top of a
mountain. I've obviously found skiing
after football. Feels really sort of
basic what I've just said when you
you're asking me something really deep.
No, but there's something profound in
that. That solitude and space.
Solitude and isolation and not not you
put that helmet on, the mask on. I'm up
on that mountain and I'm free. The air
is fresh and I feel like wow.
Free from what?
From this
having to talk all the time.
I think I'm quite No, no, no. I think
I'm tired. I think I'm a little bit
tired of hearing my own voice.
I think that the next thing that I do at
the age of 50 has to be something that
means that Gary Neville doesn't speak as
much.
Don't believe you. [laughter]
It's difficult.
So, the closing question that's been
written for you from from our previous
guest is, "What are some words you've
not said to somebody? Why haven't you
said them and who should you have said
them to?"
I think it would be to my mom
that
her and her mom and dad of all the
people I always talk about having the
influence on my life. Sir Alex Ferguson
I mention all the time. I mention my dad
a lot. I mention Eric Harrison a lot.
Nobby Styles, Roy Keane, all the
influences I' have. I never mention my
mom. And without a shadow of a doubt,
she's the best person that I've ever met
in my life. And her mom and dad were the
best people I ever met in my life.
That's making me a little bit upset.
And they were the people who I think
keep me grounded every single day
because they're just good people who do
the right things, who look after the
family, who put their family before
everything. And I don't do that.
Why does that make you upset? because
they put the family before everything
and would drop anything for anybody in
the family, their immediate family. But
I don't.
And to be fair, Emma is similar.
Emma is similar.
They're far better people than I am. I
feel that. You know what I mean? and
never tell them
because they that traditional,
you know, they do their job, they get
up, they work, they look after the
family, the responsibilities to the
family, whereas, you know, I'm floating
around.
So, yeah, it would be that I think for
them to know that that I I I don't take
it for granted. I understand the the the
importance of of that in my life and in
our lives.
The most I've ever grieved in my life
was when my mom's dad died. It was the
first person that had ever died. I was I
was lucky to have my grandparents till I
was 30 and my mom's dad died and I came
home two days after my honeymoon
started. He died two days into my
honeymoon and we I came straight home. I
didn't even break. I just got on a plane
from the Sey Shells because I had to
because he he deserved that. He deserved
that sacrifice for me to give up the
honeymoon and and Emma was fine with it
because he had such an incredible
influence on my life. Gave up all his
time for me, took me everywhere, cooked
for me, was there three, four nights a
week.
I didn't need to do that.
So there those those three people and
there are there there are others
obviously but I think those three people
and you know Emma is very similar.
Gary, thank you so much.
Thank you.
Um I've watched you for my entire life
on TV as a as a huge United fan growing
up. Um, and then obviously even to this
to this day on the overlap and what you
do across broadcast television and I I
think it's amazing and I I've after this
conversation I figured out why you've
managed to sort of grace so many
different industries and reach the top
in all of those endeavors. Um, and it's
because of that those set the set of
values that were instilled in you and
that that you clearly exude today. Your
relentlessness, your focus on hard work
and all of these kind of old school
values which I think are a little bit
lost in our generation. Thank you for
the inspiration. Thank you.
You've inspired me so tremendously and
your vulnerability and your willingness
to be open in that regard, I think, is
going to create a better future in many
respects from for young men that are
that are driving towards their ambitions
and young women, but also um as it
relates to politics and what's going on
in our society. So, you're an very
important person and it's unbelievable
that a a Manchester United um a
Manchester United right back has gone on
to do all of these things. But it's a
huge inspiration for me and many many
people that are listening, I'm sure.
Thank you.
So, thank you. Huge huge honor. I have
to say that.
No one wants to grow up to be Gary
Neville. [laughter]
Quick one. We have a brand new sponsor
on this podcast which I'm very excited
to tell you about. They're a brand
called Blue Jeans by Verizon and they
are a video conferencing and
collaboration tool that has changed the
game for our team. So, I'm so glad to be
working with them because as you know,
one of the most important things for me
is when we have a sponsor, it is part of
my world. It is part of my life. It is
part of my companies. As someone who's
on calls pretty much 80% of the day
building my businesses and speaking to
my teams all over the world, it's the
guaranteed security that differentiates
Blue Jeans from all of the other options
that are out there in terms of video
conferencing. Their enterprisegrade
security means you can protect your
organization from malicious attacks and
establish real trust with everyone that
joins your meeting. And that is
something. There are so many things that
make sense and and make Blue Jeans um a
better option than the sort of
competitors out there. And I'll be
talking about all of those aspects,
those features, and the reasons why I
use Blue Jeans in the coming episodes.
If you want to check it out, you can
head to www.blue
jeans.com to learn more. [music]
Heat. Heat. N.
[music]
[singing]